

This a model from the article:  
**A dynamical perspective of CTL cross-priming and regulation: implications for cancer immunology.**   
Wodarz D, Jansen VA. _Immunol Lett_ 2003 May 1;86(3):213-27
[12706524](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12706524) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) responses are required to fight many diseases
such as viral infections and tumors. At the same time, they can cause disease
when induced inappropriately. Which factors regulate CTL and decide whether
they should remain silent or react is open to debate. The phenomenon called
cross-priming has received attention in this respect. That is, CTL expansion
occurs if antigen is recognized on the surface of professional antigen
presenting cells (APCs). This is in contrast to direct presentation where
antigen is seen on the surface of the target cells (e.g. infected cells or
tumor cells). Here we introduce a mathematical model, which takes the
phenomenon of cross-priming into account. We propose a new mechanism of
regulation which is implicit in the dynamics of the CTL: According to the
model, the ability of a CTL response to become established depends on the
ratio of cross-presentation to direct presentation of the antigen. If this
ratio is relatively high, CTL responses are likely to become established. If
this ratio is relatively low, tolerance is the likely outcome. The behavior of
the model includes a parameter region where the outcome depends on the initial
conditions. We discuss our results with respect to the idea of self/non-self
discrimination and the danger signal hypothesis. We apply the model to study
the role of CTL in cancer initiation, cancer evolution/progression, and
therapeutic vaccination against cancers.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Wodarz D, Jansen VA. (2003) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/7113cad8414646c526728e1a7d68e13b)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

